  Santa Claus lives in the North Pole in a town named Toy Land. He has a toy factory there. He works in this factory, making toys for good boys and girls all over the world. He has many little helpers. They are called elves. Santa Claus also has a lot of animals living in his town. They are called reindeer. Reindeer are usually very strong and powerful with big antlers on their head, but one reindeer is not very strong. He does not have big antlers on his head. His name is Rudolph. He has a red nose that looks like a little red lantern in the dark. Because of this, other reindeer often laugh at him; they don't want to play with him and even call him names.
  Every Christmas Santa Claus chooses eight reindeer to pull his sleigh. It's a great honor for the reindeer. Santa chooses the most strong, powerful and beautiful reindeer for the job, and they are very proud. Now it is December 24th. The little elves help Santa pack the sleigh with presents. All the strong and powerful reindeer stand in line waiting for Santa to choose them. Only one reindeer stands nearby. He is Rudolph. He says to himself, "Rudolph, you're not strong, you're not beautiful, and so you should not stand in line because you won't be useful to Santa."When Santa comes, he finds the weather is very bad. He says, "It's so foggy that I can't read the labels on the present packets. I can't even see my hands in front of my face. What can we do? We can't find the way to the children tonight in this terrible fog." At this moment, Santa Claus sees red light all around him. He asks, "Oh, what is it?" I can see a red light around me. I need this red lamp to find the way to the children tonight." Rudolph   quickly understands the situation. He says loudly, "It's not a red lamp. It is my nose. It shines in the fog like a red light." "How wonderful!" Santa says loudly, "Rudolph, you must run in front of the other reindeer and lead the way. Then we can visit all the children in time." Rudolph says happily, "Thank you, Santa Claus. You're the first person nice to me!" Other reindeer all stand up and say, "You're great, Rudolph! You must guide our sleigh tonight!" "Not only tonight!" Santa says, "Rudolph, but every Christmas Eve."